README.md, before:

# Bugs
- [ ] there might be a problem with `sortedBlogPost()` or `pagination` in `blog.tsx` when the same articles 
are displayed in different places (discovered it by copying the same post 3 times and one of its copies appears 
at the bottom of all posts instead of being displayed alongside the previous two)
- [ ] pagination does not work correctly, the same posts are shown on two pages

# TODOs and future features
MUST do issues:
- [ ] Add better description for website, its title and author bio in `/about` page

Not prioritized:
- [ ] Add recommendation card and update `/blog/windows/chocolatey-real-time-saver-for-software-management-on-windows` 
post to use it in the end
- [ ] Make images clickable in the post to show them in their full size on click
- [ ] Remove link to tags page from the header and display it only for the blog
- [ ] Add links to RSS for each tag on the respective tag page
- [ ] Add `/projects` page
- [ ] Post tags should be displayed under blog post title
- [ ] Move `footer` for `PostLayout` (set as default) to the right (use `PostSimple` layout as a workaround for now)
- [ ] Remove `Discuss on Twitter` link from `PostLayout`
- [ ] Improve tag page for SEO and
- [ ] support for subscribing to particular tags
- [ ] TOC for blog posts
- [ ] page views count
- [ ] post read time
- [ ] Add a link to About page for the author in `PostLayout` template
- [ ] Add links to other social media sites (`TODO(social_media)`)
- [ ] Consider open source the blog (`TODO(open_source_blog)`)
- [ ] Add Google Analytics to the website (`TODO(add_ga)`)
- [ ] Add subscribe to newsletter form (`TODO(add_newsletter)`)
- [ ] Add comments to blog posts (`TODO(add_comments)`)
- [ ] Update blog list page layout for large screens to include post main image
- [ ] Track usage of `<Head>` tags and include `keys` to avoid duplication of tags

# Implemented features/changes
## All pages
- [x] updated favicons
- [x] updated logo (used emoji) and site name
- [x] added RSS icon alongside theme switcher icon with a link to main RSS feed

## Newsletter
- [x] the form was removed for now

## Website Analytics
- [x] the script was commented out for now

## Comments
- [x] removed this functionality for now

## Projects page
- [x] commented a link to `/projects` in `headerNavLinks.ts`
- [x] moved `/projects` page to `pages_unused` directory to implement it in future (`TODO(projects)`)

## SEO
- [x] Update images used as logos for SEO (`TODO(update_logo_images)`)

## Code cleanup/refactoring
- [x] Removed unused `image` property from `siteMetadata`

## Blog
### Posts Layout
- [x] moved publish date under blog post title
- [x] displayed tags under blog post `<header>` for `PostSimple` layout
- [x] decreased margin and paddings in blog post header
- [x] link to edit post on Github was hidden from `PostLayout` template
### List page
- [x] updated `POSTS_PER_PAGE` to 10

## Bug fixes
- [x] draft posts are displayed on list page (blog posts list and home page)
- [x] RSS generation ignored sort order of the posts
- [x] RSS generation included draft posts
- [x] `sitemap.xml` generation included draft posts
---------------

# Tailwind Nextjs Starter Blog

[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog?style=social)](https://GitHub.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/stargazers/)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog?style=social)](https://GitHub.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/network/)
[![Twitter URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Ftimlrxx)](https://twitter.com/timlrxx)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&link=https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx)](https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog)

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) blogging starter template. Probably the most feature-rich Next.js markdown blogging template out there. Comes out of the box configured with the latest technologies to make technical writing a breeze. Easily configurable and customizable. Perfect as a replacement to existing Jekyll and Hugo individual blogs.

Check out the documentation below to get started.

Facing issues? Check the [FAQ page](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/wiki) and do a search on past issues. Feel free to open a new issue if none has been posted previously.

Feature request? Check the past discussions to see if it has been brought up previously. Otherwise, feel free to start a new discussion thread. All ideas are welcomed!

Using the template? Feel free to create a PR and add your blog to this list.

## Motivation

I wanted to port my existing blog to Nextjs and Tailwind CSS but there was no easy out of the box template to use so I decided to create one. Design is adapted from [Tailwindlabs blog](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/blog.tailwindcss.com).

I wanted it to be nearly as feature-rich as popular blogging templates like [beautiful-jekyll](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll) and [Hugo Academic](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules) but with the best of React's ecosystem and current web development's best practices.

## Features

- Easy styling customization with [Tailwind 3.0](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v3) and primary color attribute
- Near perfect lighthouse score - [Lighthouse report](https://www.webpagetest.org/result/210111_DiC1_08f3670c3430bf4a9b76fc3b927716c5/)
- Lightweight, 45kB first load JS, uses Preact in production build
- Mobile-friendly view
- Light and dark theme
- Self-hosted font with [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/)
- Supports [plausible](https://plausible.io/), [simple analytics](https://simpleanalytics.com/) and google analytics
- [MDX - write JSX in markdown documents!](https://mdxjs.com/)
- Server-side syntax highlighting with line numbers and line highlighting via [rehype-prism-plus](https://github.com/timlrx/rehype-prism-plus)
- Math display supported via [KaTeX](https://katex.org/)
- Citation and bibliography support via [rehype-citation](https://github.com/timlrx/rehype-citation)
- Automatic image optimization via [next/image](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization)
- Flexible data retrieval with [mdx-bundler](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler)
- Support for tags - each unique tag will be its own page
- Support for multiple authors
- Blog templates
- TOC component
- Support for nested routing of blog posts
- Newsletter component with support for mailchimp, buttondown, convertkit and klaviyo
- Supports [giscus](https://github.com/laymonage/giscus), [utterances](https://github.com/utterance/utterances) or disqus
- Projects page
- Preconfigured security headers
- SEO friendly with RSS feed, sitemaps and more!

## Sample posts

- [A markdown guide](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/github-markdown-guide)
- [Learn more about images in Next.js](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/guide-to-using-images-in-nextjs)
- [A tour of math typesetting](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/deriving-ols-estimator)
- [Simple MDX image grid](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/pictures-of-canada)
- [Example of long prose](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/the-time-machine)
- [Example of Nested Route Post](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/nested-route/introducing-multi-part-posts-with-nested-routing)

## Quick Start Guide

1. JS (official support)

```bash
npx degit https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.git
```

or with TypeScript (community support)

```bash
npx degit timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog#typescript
```

2. Personalize `siteMetadata.js` (site related information)
3. Modify the content security policy in `next.config.js` if you want to use
   any analytics provider or a commenting solution other than giscus.
4. Personalize `authors/default.md` (main author)
5. Modify `projectsData.js`
6. Modify `headerNavLinks.js` to customize navigation links
7. Add blog posts
8. Deploy on Vercel

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Development

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm start
```

or

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Extend / Customize

`data/siteMetadata.js` - contains most of the site related information which should be modified for a user's need.

`data/authors/default.md` - default author information (required). Additional authors can be added as files in `data/authors`.

`data/projectsData.js` - data used to generate styled card on the projects page.

`data/headerNavLinks.js` - navigation links.

`data/logo.svg` - replace with your own logo.

`data/blog` - replace with your own blog posts.

`public/static` - store assets such as images and favicons.

`tailwind.config.js` and `css/tailwind.css` - contain the tailwind stylesheet which can be modified to change the overall look and feel of the site.

`css/prism.css` - controls the styles associated with the code blocks. Feel free to customize it and use your preferred prismjs theme e.g. [prism themes](https://github.com/PrismJS/prism-themes).

`components/social-icons` - to add other icons, simply copy an svg file from [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/) and map them in `index.js`. Other icons use [heroicons](https://heroicons.com/).

`components/MDXComponents.js` - pass your own JSX code or React component by specifying it over here. You can then call them directly in the `.mdx` or `.md` file. By default, a custom link and image component is passed.

`layouts` - main templates used in pages.

`pages` - pages to route to. Read the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) for more information.

`next.config.js` - configuration related to Next.js. You need to adapt the Content Security Policy if you want to load scripts, images etc. from other domains.

## Post

### Frontmatter

Frontmatter follows [Hugo's standards](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/).

Currently 10 fields are supported.

```
title (required)
date (required)
tags (required, can be empty array)
lastmod (optional)
draft (optional)
summary (optional)
images (optional, if none provided defaults to socialBanner in siteMetadata config)
authors (optional list which should correspond to the file names in `data/authors`. Uses `default` if none is specified)
layout (optional list which should correspond to the file names in `data/layouts`)
canonicalUrl (optional, canonical url for the post for SEO)
```

Here's an example of a post's frontmatter:

```
---
title: 'Introducing Tailwind Nexjs Starter Blog'
date: '2021-01-12'
lastmod: '2021-01-18'
tags: ['next-js', 'tailwind', 'guide']
draft: false
summary: 'Looking for a performant, out of the box template, with all the best in web technology to support your blogging needs? Checkout the Tailwind Nextjs Starter Blog template.'
images: ['/static/images/canada/mountains.jpg', '/static/images/canada/toronto.jpg']
authors: ['default', 'sparrowhawk']
layout: PostLayout
canonicalUrl: https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/introducing-tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog
---
```

### Compose

Run `node ./scripts/compose.js` to bootstrap a new post.

Follow the interactive prompt to generate a post with pre-filled front matter.

## Deploy

**Vercel**  
The easiest way to deploy the template is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com) from the creators of Next.js. Check out the [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

**Netlify / GitHub Pages / Firebase etc.**  
As the template uses `next/image` for image optimization, additional configurations have to be made to deploy on other popular static hosting websites like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). An alternative image optimization provider such as Imgix, Cloudinary or Akamai has to be used. Alternatively, replace the `next/image` component with a standard `<img>` tag. See [`next/image` documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization) for more details.

The API routes used in the newsletter component cannot be used in a static site export. You will need to use a form API endpoint provider and substitute the route in the newsletter component accordingly. Other hosting platforms such as Netlify also offer alternative solutions - please refer to their docs for more information.

## Support

Using the template? Support this effort by giving a star on GitHub, sharing your own blog and giving a shoutout on Twitter or becoming a project [sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx).

## Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/blob/master/LICENSE) © [Timothy Lin](https://www.timrlx.com)

Commit message:

Fix an issue with image optimization during static generation by using next-image-export-optimizer package

README.md, after:

# Bugs
- [ ] there might be a problem with `sortedBlogPost()` or `pagination` in `blog.tsx` when the same articles 
are displayed in different places (discovered it by copying the same post 3 times and one of its copies appears 
at the bottom of all posts instead of being displayed alongside the previous two)
- [ ] pagination does not work correctly, the same posts are shown on two pages

# TODOs and future features
MUST do issues:
- [ ] Add better description for website, its title and author bio in `/about` page

Not prioritized:
- [ ] [Setup budget alerts for GCP project used by Firebase Hosting](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/billing/avoid-surprise-bills#set-up-budget-alert-emails)
- [ ] [Connect deployed website to Firebase web app to get analytics data](https://firebase.google.com/docs/web/setup)
- [ ] Add recommendation card and update `/blog/windows/chocolatey-real-time-saver-for-software-management-on-windows` 
post to use it in the end
- [ ] Make images clickable in the post to show them in their full size on click
- [ ] Remove link to tags page from the header and display it only for the blog
- [ ] Add links to RSS for each tag on the respective tag page
- [ ] Add `/projects` page
- [ ] Post tags should be displayed under blog post title
- [ ] Move `footer` for `PostLayout` (set as default) to the right (use `PostSimple` layout as a workaround for now)
- [ ] Remove `Discuss on Twitter` link from `PostLayout`
- [ ] Improve tag page for SEO and
- [ ] support for subscribing to particular tags
- [ ] TOC for blog posts
- [ ] page views count
- [ ] post read time
- [ ] Add a link to About page for the author in `PostLayout` template
- [ ] Add links to other social media sites (`TODO(social_media)`)
- [ ] Consider open source the blog (`TODO(open_source_blog)`)
- [ ] Add Google Analytics to the website (`TODO(add_ga)`)
- [ ] Add subscribe to newsletter form (`TODO(add_newsletter)`)
- [ ] Add comments to blog posts (`TODO(add_comments)`)
- [ ] Update blog list page layout for large screens to include post main image
- [ ] Track usage of `<Head>` tags and include `keys` to avoid duplication of tags

# Implemented features/changes
## All pages
- [x] updated favicons
- [x] updated logo (used emoji) and site name
- [x] added RSS icon alongside theme switcher icon with a link to main RSS feed

## Newsletter
- [x] the form was removed for now

## Website Analytics
- [x] the script was commented out for now

## Comments
- [x] removed this functionality for now

## Projects page
- [x] commented a link to `/projects` in `headerNavLinks.ts`
- [x] moved `/projects` page to `pages_unused` directory to implement it in future (`TODO(projects)`)

## SEO
- [x] Update images used as logos for SEO (`TODO(update_logo_images)`)

## Code cleanup/refactoring
- [x] Removed unused `image` property from `siteMetadata`

## Blog
### Posts Layout
- [x] moved publish date under blog post title
- [x] displayed tags under blog post `<header>` for `PostSimple` layout
- [x] decreased margin and paddings in blog post header
- [x] link to edit post on Github was hidden from `PostLayout` template
### List page
- [x] updated `POSTS_PER_PAGE` to 10

## Bug fixes
- [x] draft posts are displayed on list page (blog posts list and home page)
- [x] RSS generation ignored sort order of the posts
- [x] RSS generation included draft posts
- [x] `sitemap.xml` generation included draft posts

## Deployment
- [x] Image optimization during static site generation is fixed by using `next-image-export-optimizer`
- [x] A project is set up to deploy statically generated site in Firebase
---------------


# Deployment
The website is basically a set of static files and these files are the only thing that should be deployed.

Firebase provides website hosting and steps below assume this choice.

`itandlife-today-website` GCP project is configured to be used by Firebase during deployment.
<br>`out` directory should contain the files to deploy 

More details about Firebase hosting - https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting

## Steps to deploy
1. Generate static website: `npm run export`
2. Preview the website before deployment: `firebase emulators:start`
3. Deploy to Firebase: `firebase deploy --only hosting`

# Tailwind Nextjs Starter Blog

[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog?style=social)](https://GitHub.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/stargazers/)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog?style=social)](https://GitHub.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/network/)
[![Twitter URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Ftimlrxx)](https://twitter.com/timlrxx)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&link=https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx)](https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog)

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) blogging starter template. Probably the most feature-rich Next.js markdown blogging template out there. Comes out of the box configured with the latest technologies to make technical writing a breeze. Easily configurable and customizable. Perfect as a replacement to existing Jekyll and Hugo individual blogs.

Check out the documentation below to get started.

Facing issues? Check the [FAQ page](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/wiki) and do a search on past issues. Feel free to open a new issue if none has been posted previously.

Feature request? Check the past discussions to see if it has been brought up previously. Otherwise, feel free to start a new discussion thread. All ideas are welcomed!

Using the template? Feel free to create a PR and add your blog to this list.

## Motivation

I wanted to port my existing blog to Nextjs and Tailwind CSS but there was no easy out of the box template to use so I decided to create one. Design is adapted from [Tailwindlabs blog](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/blog.tailwindcss.com).

I wanted it to be nearly as feature-rich as popular blogging templates like [beautiful-jekyll](https://github.com/daattali/beautiful-jekyll) and [Hugo Academic](https://github.com/wowchemy/wowchemy-hugo-modules) but with the best of React's ecosystem and current web development's best practices.

## Features

- Easy styling customization with [Tailwind 3.0](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v3) and primary color attribute
- Near perfect lighthouse score - [Lighthouse report](https://www.webpagetest.org/result/210111_DiC1_08f3670c3430bf4a9b76fc3b927716c5/)
- Lightweight, 45kB first load JS, uses Preact in production build
- Mobile-friendly view
- Light and dark theme
- Self-hosted font with [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/)
- Supports [plausible](https://plausible.io/), [simple analytics](https://simpleanalytics.com/) and google analytics
- [MDX - write JSX in markdown documents!](https://mdxjs.com/)
- Server-side syntax highlighting with line numbers and line highlighting via [rehype-prism-plus](https://github.com/timlrx/rehype-prism-plus)
- Math display supported via [KaTeX](https://katex.org/)
- Citation and bibliography support via [rehype-citation](https://github.com/timlrx/rehype-citation)
- Automatic image optimization via [next/image](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization)
- Flexible data retrieval with [mdx-bundler](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler)
- Support for tags - each unique tag will be its own page
- Support for multiple authors
- Blog templates
- TOC component
- Support for nested routing of blog posts
- Newsletter component with support for mailchimp, buttondown, convertkit and klaviyo
- Supports [giscus](https://github.com/laymonage/giscus), [utterances](https://github.com/utterance/utterances) or disqus
- Projects page
- Preconfigured security headers
- SEO friendly with RSS feed, sitemaps and more!

## Sample posts

- [A markdown guide](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/github-markdown-guide)
- [Learn more about images in Next.js](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/guide-to-using-images-in-nextjs)
- [A tour of math typesetting](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/deriving-ols-estimator)
- [Simple MDX image grid](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/pictures-of-canada)
- [Example of long prose](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/the-time-machine)
- [Example of Nested Route Post](https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/nested-route/introducing-multi-part-posts-with-nested-routing)

## Quick Start Guide

1. JS (official support)

```bash
npx degit https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.git
```

or with TypeScript (community support)

```bash
npx degit timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog#typescript
```

2. Personalize `siteMetadata.js` (site related information)
3. Modify the content security policy in `next.config.js` if you want to use
   any analytics provider or a commenting solution other than giscus.
4. Personalize `authors/default.md` (main author)
5. Modify `projectsData.js`
6. Modify `headerNavLinks.js` to customize navigation links
7. Add blog posts
8. Deploy on Vercel

## Installation

```bash
npm install
```

## Development

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm start
```

or

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

## Extend / Customize

`data/siteMetadata.js` - contains most of the site related information which should be modified for a user's need.

`data/authors/default.md` - default author information (required). Additional authors can be added as files in `data/authors`.

`data/projectsData.js` - data used to generate styled card on the projects page.

`data/headerNavLinks.js` - navigation links.

`data/logo.svg` - replace with your own logo.

`data/blog` - replace with your own blog posts.

`public/static` - store assets such as images and favicons.

`tailwind.config.js` and `css/tailwind.css` - contain the tailwind stylesheet which can be modified to change the overall look and feel of the site.

`css/prism.css` - controls the styles associated with the code blocks. Feel free to customize it and use your preferred prismjs theme e.g. [prism themes](https://github.com/PrismJS/prism-themes).

`components/social-icons` - to add other icons, simply copy an svg file from [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/) and map them in `index.js`. Other icons use [heroicons](https://heroicons.com/).

`components/MDXComponents.js` - pass your own JSX code or React component by specifying it over here. You can then call them directly in the `.mdx` or `.md` file. By default, a custom link and image component is passed.

`layouts` - main templates used in pages.

`pages` - pages to route to. Read the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) for more information.

`next.config.js` - configuration related to Next.js. You need to adapt the Content Security Policy if you want to load scripts, images etc. from other domains.

## Post

### Frontmatter

Frontmatter follows [Hugo's standards](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/).

Currently 10 fields are supported.

```
title (required)
date (required)
tags (required, can be empty array)
lastmod (optional)
draft (optional)
summary (optional)
images (optional, if none provided defaults to socialBanner in siteMetadata config)
authors (optional list which should correspond to the file names in `data/authors`. Uses `default` if none is specified)
layout (optional list which should correspond to the file names in `data/layouts`)
canonicalUrl (optional, canonical url for the post for SEO)
```

Here's an example of a post's frontmatter:

```
---
title: 'Introducing Tailwind Nexjs Starter Blog'
date: '2021-01-12'
lastmod: '2021-01-18'
tags: ['next-js', 'tailwind', 'guide']
draft: false
summary: 'Looking for a performant, out of the box template, with all the best in web technology to support your blogging needs? Checkout the Tailwind Nextjs Starter Blog template.'
images: ['/static/images/canada/mountains.jpg', '/static/images/canada/toronto.jpg']
authors: ['default', 'sparrowhawk']
layout: PostLayout
canonicalUrl: https://tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog.vercel.app/blog/introducing-tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog
---
```

### Compose

Run `node ./scripts/compose.js` to bootstrap a new post.

Follow the interactive prompt to generate a post with pre-filled front matter.

## Deploy

**Vercel**  
The easiest way to deploy the template is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com) from the creators of Next.js. Check out the [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

**Netlify / GitHub Pages / Firebase etc.**  
As the template uses `next/image` for image optimization, additional configurations have to be made to deploy on other popular static hosting websites like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). An alternative image optimization provider such as Imgix, Cloudinary or Akamai has to be used. Alternatively, replace the `next/image` component with a standard `<img>` tag. See [`next/image` documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/image-optimization) for more details.

The API routes used in the newsletter component cannot be used in a static site export. You will need to use a form API endpoint provider and substitute the route in the newsletter component accordingly. Other hosting platforms such as Netlify also offer alternative solutions - please refer to their docs for more information.

## Support

Using the template? Support this effort by giving a star on GitHub, sharing your own blog and giving a shoutout on Twitter or becoming a project [sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/timlrx).

## Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog/blob/master/LICENSE) © [Timothy Lin](https://www.timrlx.com)
